-= www.OpenSubtitles.org =-
I mistreated her, despise her.
She deserved a better wife.
And now it is not.
I'll miss her.
You will never be alone.
You have to accept that the Lord took it away from us was not in vain.
He tells you to go on your way.
I do not know what to do,
so I dragged the body here.
You did right.
- What will you do with him?  - I feed it to the pigs.
- What for?  - They will not leave traces.
What did he say exactly?
He said...
that the king was elected not by the Lord.
He questioned the legality of your brother's claims
a throne?
What to do with this is Vatican?
Church enthusiastically enjoys the secrets to increase their influence and power.
It is necessary to examine the records.
Not only those related to the Bourbons, but also all the royal blood.
Every family has its secrets.
End of the game at hand.
The moment has come when I have to make a move, even if it hurt me.
My claim to Spain
is no longer in force.
Cardinal Summer arrives on behalf of the Pope's funeral.
But, sir, now that the queen left us,
Leopold ukrepylos Pos.
Really.
I want to Cardinal approved the alliance between Charles and my niece, Mary Louise.
He did not leave from us, while Spain will not mine.
Sir, to convince the cardinal will be no easy task.
We know that the Vatican scare the aspirations of his Majesty.
That is why I must convince him that I'm an ally of him,
rather than a threat.
It only remains to understand how.
Protestants.
The Catholic Church fears the spread of Protestant influence in Europe.
Showing the cardinal that Protestants have no place in Versailles,
His Majesty show himself a defender of the Catholic faith.
How?
Protestants should be publicly punished.
Punishment?
Without a crime?
This is their cross, his and bear.
The Protestant community sees this another provocation.
And what will they do? Raise arms?
No. Leave the country.
The economic consequences would be devastating.
Trade,
Law and medicine are mainly in the hands of Protestant families.
So let them go.
But how to remedy the lack in the budget?
People will pay. we will raise
tax on salt.
Sir, we raised the tax on salt every year in the last ten years.
At least, no one accuse us of inconsistency.
Colbert.
Ottoman merchant still here?
Yes, sir.
Tell them to bring it to me.
I regret.
Please forgive me.
It must be hard for you. I know you were close.
She was always so kind to me.
And it's mutual, I have no doubt.
You thought she had died not of natural causes.
Until now, I guess.
You must be searched.
maid
almost no emissions.
Thank you.
An unusual case.
Where did you get?
This is a gift.
By whom?
I forgot.
I knew a lot of killers.
One thing always gives their guilt.
Their eyes.
Good day.
Your Highness.
I would like to bring their condolences.
I know you were close to the Queen.
One of the divine mysteries:
why some beautiful souls go in the color.
One mountain, the other - the joy.
I apologize?
The queen left us.
King is now entirely yours.
King does not belong to anyone.
Until then, until the thoughts remarry.
You do not think that the king did not re-marry.
Maybe now his heart and yours, but soon
you'll be just another name in the list of his amorous conquests.
Your Majesty.
The document on the table, I would like you to sign it.
This agreement assures me
the exclusive right to the trade route to the Mediterranean.
But in exchange?
If your emperor decides to invade Austria,
I would not stand in his way.
- Can I trust His Majesty? - King - man of his word.
I immediately go on a journey to deliver the good news.
The sea?
The ship is waiting for me at Toulon, from there I sail to Malta.
Your Eminence, I hope the trip was not too painful.
Not so painful as this ladder.
I'll take you to the room.
No, I need to first see His Majesty.
As you wish.
What is your name?
Alexander Bontan, Eminence.
I am a manager at Versailles.
So you - Bontan?
Do you know who I am?
Of course.
Where Mgr di Marco?
I thought he would meet me.
I can not know, sir.
Find him.
Tell him to come to my chambers.
On behalf of His Holiness Pope Innocent XI
I bring to you my most sincere condolences.
she died
too early.
Thank you.
Are the rooms of his Eminence?
Of course, sir.
Ly came to lead us from Emperor Leopold?
News?
I received a message stating that he would come to the funeral.
Well, happy to accept it.
We risk.
And this is only the beginning of the Duchess.
Concern in our environment grows.
We have to stay strong, do not forget who we are.
Can I steal a moment the Duchess?
In our last conversation
you told me,
I would not marry me, I'll be the last man on earth. I would like to say about their desires.
Your desires were very clear.
I ask, forget about my past.
And about my reputation.
Actually,
I'm trying to say is ...
I think I love you.
I know that I love you.
And I promised to help your nephew.
But, to my shame, I have not succeeded.
Lord courtiers!
I appeal to the Protestants among you.
According to the order of the king,
I demand that anyone who owns a Bible in French,
We gave it.
Discard
these sinful things,
otherwise you will be exposed to a search.
And your quarters turned upside down.
Dolphin.
Do not give up.
First, you arrest M. de Puy,
then forcing us to abandon our faith, and now - is it?
- It's outrageous. - No, ma'am.
word of God
should sound in Latin, and only from the lips of ministers
church.
Allowing people to read it yourself,
we push them on the path of error and heresy.
I wish to speak with the king.
Unless he wants
speak with you.
Why?
Because that's needed.
Believe me,
I'm sorry for your pain.
No, Francoise, you do not feel anything.
I think the Duchess lost her mind.
But she managed to keep
bravery.
Your admiration is inappropriate.
I think it's outrageous.
I myself was a Protestant.
And I do not like the fact that these people are not considered loyal subjects.
My brother does not tolerate those who disagree with him.
Who honored us?
Do not you recognize her?
This is your daughter.
Maria Luisa.
And the next Queen of Spain.
Maria Luisa I - Princess Palatine.
Your stepmother.
- I thought you were ... - Witch?
I thought we agreed that she will marry your son.
Look at it as a happy opportunity.
- For you. - For both of us.
Tonight, during a holiday, it will present to His Holiness Cardinal Summer.
If it will make an impression on him,
I look forward to the blessing of the union with the Pope.
Let you prepare it.
From now on, you belong to France.
I have a task for you.
How to convince
arrogant and smug papal envoy
to do what we want from him?
Why are you asking me such a question?
Well,
because you are familiar with the sentiments of the people close to the authorities.
You keep us in their little fingers.
You play with us.
We obey his will.
His Majesty...
will not let me concentrate.
Of course.
But to return to our business.
This is the Pope's envoy, then ...
his power ...
stronger faith.
Maybe.
He achieved his position
betrayal and bribery.
Undoubtedly.
He cares only
about power and their status.
hence,
he needs flattery.
Yes?
Let me introduce you to Madame de Maintenon.
Your Holiness.
I hope you are satisfied with their housing.
say,
Do you believe
that tyranny can be something good?
You need for yourself Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
Do you want to rule the world and bring Leopold oblivion.
Believe me, Your Eminence, I do not need power, I need peace.
Call it a tyranny, if you want.
You need Spain and its position.
Yes, to protect her.
What to Leopold, nobody respects it more than I do.
But I believe that the church deserves
a strong defender.
After the death of the Queen
you can no longer claim to be Spain.
It is a matter not claims and debt.
It is my duty - to protect the interests of the church.
And I hope that His Holiness will understand correctly
my aspirations.
It is solely a desire to serve.
His Holiness has blessed
Union of Spanish King Charles
and Eleanor Princess.
And if I will present a suitable candidate?
For example?
My niece, Princess Maria Luisa.
M. Marchal,
Can I talk to you?
Of course.
It's about His Highness the Duke of Orleans.
King is concerned about the state of his mind.
Sorry to hear that,
but I do not know what to do with it I have.
I've seen recently, you spoke to him.
I thought maybe he had said or done something,
to show you ...
unusual.
For example?
his Highness
I was convinced that he had conspired against.
I tried to help him solve the puzzle.
Our search was to no avail, and I thought he gave up the idea.
But I'm afraid I was wrong.
He did not speak to me about it.
But if that happens, I'll let you know the king.
First, warn me.
His Majesty's already a lot of worries right now.
As you wish.
Tell me about the king's brother.
He continues to poke his nose into our affairs?
As a dog, smell fox.
With each passing day it is getting closer to the truth.
King informed him of the investigation?
Where is the prisoner?
In a safe place.
Let there remain until you need me.
Your Eminence ...
if the identity of the prisoner will be open ...
the consequences will be extremely serious.
Do you think I do not know?
I would never have come here not,
If your requirements are not the king have gone too far.
What do you think,
Women are the duties?
To serve her husband.
Be true.
Show modesty.
And to bring up children.
Imagine that your husband says that the world is full of fairies.
What do you say?
I will support his opinion.
AND...
And if he asks you to enter naked in the fountain?
I will try to fulfill his request.
You learn a lot.
Women - only pawns in men's games.
They own us.
But do not let them break your spirit.
- I came to examine her highness. - It's impossible.
- Who is the wrong moment. - That is the order of the king, your highness.
Maria Luisa ...
You must examine the doctor.
Please lie down and raise your dress.
Do not touch me.
Send for His Highness.
He should make sure that you are innocent.
My dear...
I will not let.
The doctor is only doing his duty.
You should do the same. It only takes a few minutes.
Maria Luisa!
What's going on here?
The doctor came to examine her.
My dear,
you have to understand,
without that your marriage is impossible.
Please do not let him.
Now lie down on the bed.
King!
say,
what are the plans of His Majesty about the future of marriage?
I'm still in mourning and did not consider this question.
But you satisfy your needs with one of his mistresses.
Glory to your yard
It does not go to any comparison with your sexual appetites.
But where is the princess?
I can not wait to meet her.
It will be soon.
And here it is.
I present to you my brother, the Duke of Orleans,
his wife, Princess Palatine, and his daughter,
Mary Louise.
A great honor for me.
Walk.
Approach.
Tell me something about yourself.
What are your interests?
I have very little to say about yourself, your Eminence.
I am young and inexperienced is
with regard to secular traditions. I prefer to listen to.
Do you pray?
I go to Mass twice a day.
And the embroidery?
Very fond of.
say,
what do you think,
It must be a woman
married?
I think a woman should be submissive and loyal,
under any circumstances.
What a charming young creature.
We turn to food?
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Your Eminence,
I ask all of you to get up and go to the window.
What they burn?
Protestant Bible.
No!
It seems, at the court of many Protestants.
Many have already renounced their faith.
How did you do it?
Gentle exhortations.
Let's say His Holiness approve
union your niece and King Charles.
Do you realize that this will happen under certain conditions?
Of course.
Strasbourg and Luxembourg
remain under the rule of Leopold.
And you
guarantee the protection of the Holy Roman Empire
in the face of an imminent invasion of the Ottomans.
You have my word.
Good.
Should I conclude that his Eminence approves this marriage?
I have not yet made a decision.
Of course.
Thank you, my child.
What are you doing?
I thought...
You thought wrong.
desires of the flesh
I'm not interested.
But Strawberry ...
19...
22...
26...
31...
1619.
1622.
26.
31.
Four stillborn children.
AND?
Seven years passed before the birth of your brother.
What happened before that?
Nothing. They tried, they did not, and then my brother was born.
Maybe.
What else can be the explanation?
What if your father
He despaired of the fact that he will never have a son?
Which his wife was unable to give him.
The nightmare of any king.
He remained a simple choice.
- give birth to a son with another woman? - Exactly.
The heir, who may still be alive.
And he wears an iron mask that hides his face.
So, my father had a mistress.
I did not know that my father had relations with other women.
I know someone who might know about them.
I have not seen him in the salons of the past ten years.
Court life not to his liking.
And if he is still alive?
Monsieur?
What?
Is the fire?
Oh, good evening, Your Highness.
Please forgive me that we disturb you at this hour.
I am sure you have a good reason.
I want to ask you a question.
You knew my father, did not you?
Yes, I had the honor to be his friend.
He had a mistress?
Your father was a faithful husband.
I do not know about that.
You're lying.
You were a friend of the Count of Soissons.
Right?
I barely knew him.
Only?
And yet
You have teamed up with them to overthrow your "friend" of the king.
It would be unfortunate,
if the present king learned of your treachery to his father.
Tell me about his mistress.
You may not like it here,
but the cold prison cell like you even less.
There were rumors ...
Her name?
Luiz de Lafayette.
She was one of the maids of honor of the queen.
What happened to her?
After the connection with your father
she left the yard and went to the convent of Chaillot.
I believe,
Your father visited her until his death.
This Lafayette could have a baby,
whom my father admitted,
if my mother had not given birth to an heir.
Exactly.
And when your brother was born,
Lafayette decided to leave the yard.
Are you angry with me.
No. To myself.
Why?
I know you can not abandon its responsibilities, but ...
I know it's naive on my part, but it's stronger than me.
I understand.
True?
Since then, when I first saw you, I wanted to be with you.
And here we are together, but you have me taken away.
You told me that I'll never be lonely.
And now...
I say the same to you.
Get up!
- What's the matter? - Get ready.
- For what? - By meeting with the cardinal.
I want you to hit him with his mind
and modesty, for what you just can do.
But why?
Because with it you will become the next queen of Spain.
I must thank you.
Your presence here proves that you are a brave and ingenious performing their duty.
Thank you, Your Highness.
But...
I must warn you.
Me hanging suspicions.
Head of the royal guard convinced
that the Queen had died not of natural causes.
- He's got proof? - No.
But I am afraid of him.
Honey, if there is no evidence, then there is nothing to fear.
You'll be near my niece until our departure.
As you wish.
Tell me about Louis. What's on his mind?
King handles cases behind closed doors.
In the salons say little about politics.
But there is always something to eat.
Someone has visited?
Yesterday he was visited by some merchant
he spoke with Monsieur Colbert.
Dealer? What a trader? Where?
I do not know.
He was like a native of the Middle East.
He said that in Toulon is going to catch a boat to Malta.
- Find this merchant. - Yes, Your Majesty.
Please accept my condolences.
Her death - a tragedy, she was an amazing woman.
Thank you.
Should be, you feel lost without it.
- At heart she is still with me. - Just as in every soul.
Do you really think that I will never know the truth?
The truth?
You convinced her to go to Spain to arrange the marriage of Charles and your niece.
You used it.
I am not alone.
Why did you come here?
Mourn.
But this is not the only reason.
You want to see the Cardinal,
to enlist its support on the issue of Spain.
You read me like an open book, Louis.
Like I do.
But I succeed.
Nothing like this.
Maybe he supports you, but he knows all your weaknesses.
By the way, your wife was a delightful mistress.
So much passion ...
So much imagination ...
Can I do something to help?
Yes, leave us.
You find anything?
Maybe.
It scares me the idea of ​​half-brother, whose existence I did not know.
Soon we all know.
Entries in the parish books
all births and deaths in the past 50 years.
You blindly approach the precipice.
And if you do not jump on their own, Louis himself will push you.
Perhaps he is sincere in his desire to protect the Holy Roman Empire.
This is my job.
But if you can still carry it?
Louis serves only to himself, he sees himself as God.
He has the power and authority,
which you may lack.
The Pope has already approved the union of Eleanor and King Charles.
Maybe.
But after the death of the queen had no rights.
Do not be so sure.
Nothing.
M. Marchal, His Majesty wants to talk to you.
M. Marchal, I have a job for you.
Of course.
It's about a niece of Emperor Leopold, Princess Eleanor.
It has become a hindrance to my plans.
I do not like noise.
With all due respect, sir ...
Do princess deserves such a fate?
She is young.
But dangerous.
Yes?
Good afternoon.
I see you come on duty.
You are looking for evidence.
But something is troubling you.
What is it?
I'm beginning to doubt all his beliefs.
In all that I have done.
I think of things that would never hear.
Thank you.
For what?
Trust.
How soon will we see you again?
Or am I just a passing fancy?
I will come to you tonight,
if I may.
Can.
In the meantime,
I would like you to do something for me.
So what is the real reason for your visit?
What should I do?
You know, maybe,
King became interested in Princess Eleanor.
Yes, I know.
You're close to the princess.
His Majesty would like to see her.
Alone.
So that her uncle did not know anything.
Where?
When?
Before the funeral.
In a greenhouse.
- Now you trust me? - Yes.
- Where is your uncle? - I have no idea.
- I think your life is in danger. - I'm doomed - do you mean?
No! Listen.
Listen to me!
- I think you're going to kill. - Who?
A man from the king.
We have to warn your uncle and you have to leave immediately for Spain.
- I do not want to go to Spain. - But you can not stay here.
So what should I do?
- Run. - How?
I will help you.
Why should I believe you?
Because I'll run with you.
Eleanor?
When?
Immediately.
Are you ready?
If His Majesty will forgive me, I would have wanted to stay at home.
Why?
I feel bad, uncle.
Women's malaise.
ABOUT! Clear.
Well, well.
Are you sure?
I have nothing to lose.
I was right.
"Born on this day,
"In the year of the Great 1637
"Son, Robert ...
"In the presence of Martin's father, the parish priest,
"Madame and Sekretan, midwife.
"Louis de Bourbon, King of France.
"And Luiz de Lafayette."
Something is wrong?
There is nothing.
We have lost a man,
dear to our hearts. We mourn her.
And we mourn themselves.
We ourselves suffer
from this loss.
And we wonder about the mystery,
which represents our Lord.
But there is a human life,
if not a short path of light,
surrounded on all sides ...
endless
shadows?
We think about this darkness.
We do not know anything about her.
But do not be afraid of it.
We have to accept it.
Because it is not dark at all,
but the light that will shine forever.
It is the light of faith.
Glory.
It is the light of God.
A beautiful ceremony.
Brother!
Can I talk to you now.
Now.
Talk.
Tell me what you've done.
I did nothing.
What happened? What did you want to talk about?
O justice.
About Justice?
We have an older brother.
Перевод: alweene
Translation specially made for the group series Versailles | Versailles Series VKontakte.
Moved to Notabenoyde http://notabenoid.org/book/73401/406253
Переводчики: alweene
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org